In
Stargate you fight for the freedom of a people
who are slaves to an alien posing as a god,
sounds pretty cool, right?
But what I’m about to say is the end-all-be-all:
you play as Kurt Russell.
Do I even need to say more than that?
Kurt’s back to killing aliens once again
after his rampage in John Carpenter’s The
Thing.
Sadly, though, he’s left his beard at home.
Which is a problem because it’s a pretty
well-known fact that Kurt’s beard is like
Samson’s hair; it gives him all his powers
and without it he’s vulnerable.
So things are about to get serious.
And I mean his beard has its own Facebook
page for f…
Beardless Kurt is Jack O’Neill, the colonel
of a Special Forces team sent through an alien
device capable of transporting matter thousands
of light years in an instant, A.K.A. the Stargate.
In spite of the sci-fi keystone that is the
Stargate which holds this story together,
the narrative is actually more archaic and
less scientific.
In place of the technologically advanced planet-cities
of Star Wars or the Citadel of Mass Effect,
Stargate instead takes place on another world
that feels eerily like ancient Egypt with
dunes and structures that fit the time period.
And this is where you’ll be doing your action
platforming as you trigger click through tyrannical
overlords while aiding the natives in a rebellion
to overthrow the false God-King Ra.
To reach Ra, O’Neill will be given various
tasks through the campaign, like gathering
bomb parts and supplies to rescuing captured
members of his squad.
Most of these missions consist of adventuring
across an overworld to find different doors
or cave entrances, and then entering the doors
and caves to look for objectives.
Sometimes after finishing these missions,
O’Neill will be given a choice of where
to go next, each direction will change stage
progression a bit.
Going in and out of corridors and choosing
the different pathways leads to a slight sense
of free-roaming adventure, but nothing that
breaks too far from linearity.
Still, it’s a welcome addition.
Another welcome addition is the different
weapon mods scattered throughout these environments,
like liquid cooling to stop overheating or
bullet spread.
Besides his machine gun, O’Neill can also
toss grenades, which are plentiful but absolutely
necessary; especially when fighting the very
difficult bosses.
Between hanging, shooting, grenades and machine
gun mods, Stargate can make for some suitable
action while also showcasing its gameplay
diversity during the tougher encounters.
Gameplay also has occasional flight stages
that break up the on-foot gun-toting.
These flight stages usually have O’Neill
shooting down other enemies or collecting
fuel to reach far off bases.
Flying missions aren’t as fleshed out as
the platforming or gunning, but it does add
a nice change to pace.
From the death gliders and staff lasers from
jackal-headed enemies to Kurt Russell and
James Spader’s portraits delving out dialogue;
the game stays pretty true to the movie.
It’s not the best video game adaptation
ever, but it’s got good animations, sound
platforming and decent shooting.
What it doesn’t have is Teal’c or Sam,
but that shouldn’t stop any fan of action
platforming or Stargate from trying this one
out.